OK let's return to looking at lists.
I've started another project and I've essentially just copied over the two lists we created in the last
video so that we can start fresh with them.
So now let's take a look at some of the functions that cotland has added that manipulate lists so one
thing that we can do is we can easily get the last element in a list as follows so we can say print
line strings start last.
And if we run this
we'll see that the last element in our strings list is winter.
Of course you can also get the first element by calling the first function though that's not as useful
because you know the first element will be at position 0.
So you can always just use square brackets to get the first element and provide the index 0.
OK so how about reversing a list.
Well we can do that so we can say print line strings start as reversed and if we run that
we'll see that we now have winter fall summer spring so the items have been reversed.
So let's say we want to get an item from our list our strings list.
So let's say we want to get item at location 5 within you know within x 5.
So we probably do something like this if strings not size is greater than I guess five
then it's safe for us to get index 5.
So we'll say print line strings 5.
So let's run
and of course we're not going to see anything because we only have four items in our list.
So is there a more concise way of writing this.
Essentially what we're doing here is we only want to get an item if an item exists at the provided index
and we're doing the check because we don't want an exception to be thrown because if we just comment
out the these two lines here for a minute and then run we're going to get an exception because we only
have four elements so the indices will go from 0 1 2 to 3 and we're trying to get the element of position
5 doesn't exist.
So instead of writing it like this we can do the following.
So I might as well comment out this line as well.
We can say print line strings Daut get or novel and provide 5.
So what we're seeing here is we want element 5 and last.
That's going to cause an exception in that case just return NULL.
So we're run and we'll see that we don't get an exception and we get all printed.
So that's a very concise way of not having to do this check.
OK so there's is an easy way to get a maximum value in a can in a collection and let's create a collection
like we had last time.
So we'll say Vau it's equal and some will just say a list of 1 2 3 4 5.
And then we can save print line and start max.
So if we do that obviously we should get 5
and we do.
So that's an easy way to get the maximum we can join two collections together using the xit function.
So if we wanted to join our list of seasons with our list of colors we can just do the following print
line color list or zip strings.
So let's run
animals see something a little different than what we were expecting.
Were you expecting this.
Probably not.
We have pairs.
And what's happened is because these lists aren't the same lens we've got a pair of black with spring
white with summer red with fall and then winter just gets dropped off.
So the zip function actually creates pair elements.
Pair is a Koplin class.
And let's go ahead and take a look at its declaration and I guess the way I'll do that is just typing
in pear here and then we'll say go to Declaration and we'll see that pear represents a pair of generic
values.
So the zip function takes the first element from each list and creates a pair from them and then it
takes the second elements and creates a pair from them etc..
So that's what it's doing here.
When the lists aren't of equal size as is the case here it drops the access elements from the longer
list.
Now you can see how Zipp would be useful if you have two lists of related information and you want to
bring them together.
For example you might have a list of first names and a list of last names and you want to bring those
together in a way that makes sense.
So that's great.
Now we know what Zipp does but how about just joining the list together without creating pears.
Well to do that we'll just create another list as follows.
So we'll say Vau merge lists equals list of.
Now we want to start with the colors I think we sense will say color list followed by the strings list.
Let's print this list and see if this time we got what we want
.
And we didn't get what we want.
So now we have a list containing two lists.
So when you use zip you get a list of pairs when you use this method of just saying I now want a list
with both lists in it.
That's what you get a list with both listen it.
So let's try another way.
Let's say Val combined the list equals and this time will say color list plus strings.
And then we'll print our combined list.
Now let's run and see if this gives us what we want and it does.
So we have our three colors and then we have our four seasons.
So you can concatenate lists together and you just use the regular old plus just as you do when you
concatenate strings.
OK let's add some duplicate items into the strings and the color list.
So let's pretend this is the season's on another planet and they have two summers and then we'll add
some duplicate color so we've got black white red and let's add black and red again.
OK so now we want to combine these two lists but we don't want any duplicate items in there so we can't
just use concatenation because if we use concatenation we're getting to get all the duplicates.
Well this is where the Union function comes in.
So we can say Val no dupes list equals color list.
Union strings.
And if we print line are no dupes list and run
we'll see that we now get a list that doesn't have any duplicate Senate.
So we have black white red.
Spring Summer Fall and Winter and you'll notice that the print line from the combined list does contain
all of the duplicates.
So this is great but can we remove duplicates from a list without having to combine that list with anything.
Well yes we can.
So instead of doing a union because we don't want another list involved this time let's just remove
the duplicates from our color list and we'll do it by saying found no do colors equals color list dot
distinct and then we'll print print line no do colors.
So let's run
and we'll see now that we've removed all the duplicates from the color list so if you want to join two
lists together and remove any duplicate So you use the Union function.
If you're just interested in removing duplicates from a single list then you use the distinct function.
Now everything that we've been doing here with a an immutable list you can obviously do with a mutable
one but calling one of the functions that changes a list might not change the immutable list just because
it's mutable.
Some functions work directly on the list and others return a new list.
For example the distinct function returns a new list.
Most of our lists are immutable.
But let's say we now want to change one of these less so we want it to be mutable.
Can we do that.
And of course we can.
So we can say valid mutable.
Let's call it seasons equals and we can say strings daat to mutable list and then we can say mutable
seasons.
Add some other season then if we print line are immutable seasons we'll see that the list is changed.
And here it is.
So now we have some other season at the end of the list.
So that's it for looking at lists for now.
I'm going to stop the video here and in the next video we're going to start to look at other types of
collections.
See you in the next video.